README.md, before:

# Project ai-financial-advisor

A practice repository to showcase Anthropic's Agent Skills in an area of great interest to me: financial investing.

The overall goal of this project is to develop an agentic AI framework that provides financial advisory regarding whether to invest or not in a particular publicly-traded company.

>  ⚠️ **Warning**: I am not a trained nor certified financial advisor, and the development of this tool is solely meant as a way for me to practice my skills in the area of agentic AI. Should you decide to use this tool, please remember that investing involves risks and its consequences are of the responsibility of the investor alone.

This project is inspired by and leverages the Agent Skills features described in [Claude Skills Cookbook](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-cookbooks/tree/ef506bc3de0d76f154cafb4dbb0f6a259c896ba2/skills). The main contributions of this project are as follows:

1. Creation of agentic AI framework with an orchestrator agent (i.e., an AI financial advisor) and its assistant AI agents that perform specific financial analyses under the guidance of their "supervisor" (the orchestrator agent).
2. Addition of a new agent skill for technical analysis of time-series financial data, leveraging [pandas_ta_classic](https://xgboosted.github.io/pandas-ta-classic/index.html#).

*Note: This README is still under construction.*

## Financial Analyses

### Financial Statements

AI assistant analyzes income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements to assess financial health. Adapted from Anthropic's cookbook. Key evaluations:

- Evaluates income statements, balance sheets, cash flows
- Calculates key financial ratios
- Agent Skills for retrieving financial data
- Outputs health scores and trend analysis


### Financial Models

*🚧 To be implemented*

AI assistant builds DCF models, performs comparable company analysis, and conducts sensitivity analysis. Adapted from Anthropic's cookbook. Key models:

- DCF (Discounted Cash Flow) valuation
- Comparable company analysis
- Sensitivity analysis
- Agent Skills for WACC calculation, FCF projections, terminal value


### Technical Analysis

*🚧 To be implemented*

AI assistant performs technical analysis using pandas_ta_classic library for comprehensive indicator calculations and trading signal generation. **NEW: Original skill created for this project**. Key features:
- Uses `pandas_ta_classic` for technical indicators
- Analyzes trends, momentum, volume, volatility
- Identifies support/resistance levels and chart patterns
- Agent Skills for calculating indicators and detecting patterns
- Outputs trading signals and entry/exit points

## Installation

1. Clone the repository

```shell
git clone git@github.com:bacalfa/ai-financial-advisor.git
cd ai-financial-advisor
```

2. Create virtual or a conda environment (example using `uv`)

```shell
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies (example using `uv`)

```shell
uv sync
```

4. Create file `.env` in top folder and containing the following text

```
# Create this file in .env and add your actual API key

# Required: Your Anthropic API key from https://console.anthropic.com/
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-api03-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

# Model selection (Skills require Claude 4.5 Sonnet or newer)
ANTHROPIC_MODEL=claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929

# Optional: Custom skills storage directory (default: ./src/agents/custom_skills)
SKILLS_STORAGE_PATH=./src/agents/custom_skills

# Optional: Output directory for generated files (default: ./outputs)
OUTPUT_PATH=./outputs
```

## Usage

### Financial Statement Example

Run script [examples/financial_statements_example.py](examples/financial_statements_example.py) to obtain the financial statement analysis by an AI agent for the company Apple (AAPL). The `response` result will look something like the following:

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL](imgs/financial_statements_example.png)

The core of the agent's response is available in field `data`, which in addition to a "health score" as assessed by the agent, also includes:

- Key metrics

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: key metrics](imgs/financial_statements_example_key_metrics.png)

- Trend analysis

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: trend analysis](imgs/financial_statements_example_trend_analysis.png)

- Strengths

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: strengths](imgs/financial_statements_example_strengths.png)

- Concerns

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: concerns](imgs/financial_statements_example_concerns.png)

- Risks

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: risks](imgs/financial_statements_example_risks.png)

- Data quality notes

```python
'Financial data is complete for 2022-2025 period. Interest expense data missing for 2024-2025, using 2023 data for coverage ratio. High quality data from reliable sources.'
```

- Health score notes

```python
"Score of 0.76 reflects Apple's exceptional profitability (net margin 26.9%), solid growth trajectory, but considers liquidity constraints from negative working capital structure and moderate leverage levels. Strong cash generation and market position support overall health."
```


Note that this is only one independent financial analysis performed by an AI agent.

Commit message:

Implemented FinancialAssistantModels and updated README

README.md, after:

# Project ai-financial-advisor

A practice repository to showcase Anthropic's Agent Skills in an area of great interest to me: financial investing.

The overall goal of this project is to develop an agentic AI framework that provides financial advisory regarding whether to invest or not in a particular publicly-traded company.

>  ⚠️ **Warning**: I am not a trained nor certified financial advisor, and the development of this tool is solely meant as a way for me to practice my skills in the area of agentic AI. Should you decide to use this tool, please remember that investing involves risks and its consequences are of the responsibility of the investor alone.

This project is inspired by and leverages the Agent Skills features described in [Claude Skills Cookbook](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-cookbooks/tree/ef506bc3de0d76f154cafb4dbb0f6a259c896ba2/skills). The main contributions of this project are as follows:

1. Creation of agentic AI framework with an orchestrator agent (i.e., an AI financial advisor) and its assistant AI agents that perform specific financial analyses under the guidance of their "supervisor" (the orchestrator agent).
2. Addition of a new agent skill for technical analysis of time-series financial data, leveraging [pandas_ta_classic](https://xgboosted.github.io/pandas-ta-classic/index.html#).

*Note: This README is still under construction.*

## Financial Analyses

### Financial Statements

AI assistant analyzes income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements to assess financial health. Adapted from Anthropic's cookbook. Key evaluations:

- Evaluates income statements, balance sheets, cash flows
- Calculates key financial ratios
- Agent Skills for retrieving financial data
- Outputs health scores and trend analysis


### Financial Models

AI assistant builds DCF models, performs comparable company analysis, and conducts sensitivity analysis. Adapted from Anthropic's cookbook. Key calculations:

- DCF (Discounted Cash Flow) valuation
- Comparable company analysis
- Sensitivity analysis
- Agent Skills for WACC calculation, FCF projections, terminal value

*Note: Automatically list comparable companies using a (free) Massive API key for stocks. See section [Installation](#installation).*

### Technical Analysis

*🚧 To be implemented*

AI assistant performs technical analysis using pandas_ta_classic library for comprehensive indicator calculations and trading signal generation. **NEW: Original skill created for this project**. Key features:
- Uses `pandas_ta_classic` for technical indicators
- Analyzes trends, momentum, volume, volatility
- Identifies support/resistance levels and chart patterns
- Agent Skills for calculating indicators and detecting patterns
- Outputs trading signals and entry/exit points

## Installation

1. Clone the repository

```shell
git clone git@github.com:bacalfa/ai-financial-advisor.git
cd ai-financial-advisor
```

2. Create virtual or a conda environment (example using `uv`)

```shell
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies (example using `uv`)

```shell
uv sync
```

4. Create file `.env` in top folder and containing the following text

```
# Create this file in .env and add your actual API key

# Required: Your Anthropic API key from https://console.anthropic.com/
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-api03-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

# Model selection (Skills require Claude 4.5 Sonnet or newer)
ANTHROPIC_MODEL=claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929

# Optional: Custom skills storage directory (default: ./src/agents/custom_skills)
SKILLS_STORAGE_PATH=./src/agents/custom_skills

# Optional: Output directory for generated files (default: ./outputs)
OUTPUT_PATH=./outputs

# Massive API key from https://massive.com/ (optional)
MASSIVE_API_KEY=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

## Usage

### Financial Statement Example

Run script [examples/financial_statements_example.py](examples/financial_statements_example.py) to obtain the financial statement analysis by an AI agent for the company Apple (AAPL). The `response` result will look something like the following:

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL](imgs/financial_statements_example.png)

The core of the agent's response is available in field `data`, which in addition to a "health score" as assessed by the agent, also includes:

- Key metrics

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: key metrics](imgs/financial_statements_example_key_metrics.png)

- Trend analysis

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: trend analysis](imgs/financial_statements_example_trend_analysis.png)

- Strengths

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: strengths](imgs/financial_statements_example_strengths.png)

- Concerns

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: concerns](imgs/financial_statements_example_concerns.png)

- Risks

![Example of financial statement output for AAPL: risks](imgs/financial_statements_example_risks.png)

- Data quality notes

```python
'Financial data is complete for 2022-2025 period. Interest expense data missing for 2024-2025, using 2023 data for coverage ratio. High quality data from reliable sources.'
```

- Health score notes

```python
"Score of 0.76 reflects Apple's exceptional profitability (net margin 26.9%), solid growth trajectory, but considers liquidity constraints from negative working capital structure and moderate leverage levels. Strong cash generation and market position support overall health."
```


Note that this is only one independent financial analysis performed by an AI agent.


### Financial Modeling Example

Run script [examples/financial_models_example.py](examples/financial_models_example.py) to obtain the financial statement analysis by an AI agent for the company Apple (AAPL). The `response` result will look something like the following:

![Example of financial modeling output for AAPL](imgs/financial_models_example.png)

The core of the agent's response is available in field `data` which contains calculation and analysis results:

![Example of financial modeling output for AAPL: data](imgs/financial_models_example_data.png)
