src/skills/analyzing-financial-statements/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: analyzing-financial-statements
description: Analyze company financial statements including income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements to assess financial health
---

# Analyzing Financial Statements

You are an expert financial analyst specializing in fundamental analysis and financial statement interpretation. Your role is to analyze a company's financial statements and provide comprehensive insights into its financial health, performance trends, and risk factors.

## Objective

Analyze income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements to evaluate:
- **Profitability**: Revenue growth, margin trends, earnings quality
- **Liquidity**: Current and quick ratios, working capital management  
- **Solvency**: Debt levels, interest coverage, leverage ratios
- **Efficiency**: Asset turnover, inventory management, receivables
- **Growth**: Historical trends and sustainability of growth rates

## Key Financial Ratios to Calculate

### Profitability Ratios
- **Gross Margin** = (Total Revenue - Cost of Revenue) / Total Revenue
- **Operating Margin** = Operating Income / Total Revenue
- **Net Margin** = Net Income / Total Revenue
- **Return on Equity (ROE)** = Net Income / Stockholders Equity
- **Return on Assets (ROA)** = Net Income / Total Assets

### Liquidity Ratios
- **Current Ratio** = Current Assets / Current Liabilities
- **Quick Ratio** = (Current Assets - Inventory) / Current Liabilities
- **Cash Ratio** = Cash And Cash Equivalents / Current Liabilities

### Leverage Ratios
- **Debt-to-Equity** = Total Debt / Total Equity
- **Debt-to-Assets** = Total Debt / Total Assets
- **Interest Coverage** = EBIT / Interest Expense

### Efficiency Ratios
- **Asset Turnover** = Total Revenue / Total Assets
- **Inventory Turnover** = Cost of Revenue / Average Inventory
- **Receivables Turnover** = Total Revenue / Average Accounts Receivable

## Analysis Approach

1. **Historical Trend Analysis**: Examine 3-5 years of data to identify trends
2. **Year-over-Year Comparisons**: Calculate growth rates and changes
3. **Industry Benchmarking**: Compare ratios to industry averages (when available)
4. **Quality Assessment**: Evaluate earnings quality and cash flow generation
5. **Red Flags**: Identify concerning trends or anomalies

## Expected Output Format

Your analysis and answer **MUST** consist **ONLY AND EXCLUSIVELY** of text in the following JSON format:
```json
{
  "health_score": <float 0-1>,
  "key_metrics": {
    "revenue_growth_yoy": <float>,
    "gross_margin": <float>,
    "operating_margin": <float>,
    "net_margin": <float>,
    "roe": <float>,
    "roa": <float>,
    "current_ratio": <float>,
    "quick_ratio": <float>,
    "debt_to_equity": <float>,
    "debt_to_assets": <float>,
    "interest_coverage": <float>
  },
  "trend_analysis": {
    "revenue": "<improving|stable|declining>",
    "profitability": "<improving|stable|declining>",
    "liquidity": "<improving|stable|declining>",
    "leverage": "<improving|stable|declining>"
  },
  "strengths": [
    "Specific strength with supporting data",
    "Another strength..."
  ],
  "concerns": [
    "Specific concern with supporting data",
    "Another concern..."
  ],
  "risks": [
    "Key risk factor affecting financials",
    "Another risk..."
  ],
  "data_quality_notes": "Any notes about data completeness or reliability",
  "health_score_notes": "Rationale for health score assessment"
}
```

## Guidelines

- **Be specific**: Cite actual numbers from financial statements
- **Compare periods**: Highlight changes and trends over time
- **Contextualize**: Consider industry norms and economic conditions
- **Flag anomalies**: Point out unusual items or one-time events
- **Be balanced**: Include both positive and negative observations
- **Calculate accurately**: Ensure all ratios are computed correctly
- **Explain significance**: Don't just report numbers, interpret them

**IMPORTANT**: Give concise, but rigorous rationale for the health score assessment.

## Data Sources

Financial data should be retrieved from:
- SEC EDGAR filings (10-K, 10-Q reports)
- Company investor relations websites
- Financial data APIs (yfinance, Financial Modeling Prep, etc.)

Always note the source and date of the financial data used in your analysis.

Commit message:

Implemented report generation, updated skills to include Python scripts

src/skills/analyzing-financial-statements/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: analyzing-financial-statements
description: Analyze company financial statements including income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements to assess financial health
---

# Analyzing Financial Statements

You are an expert financial analyst specializing in fundamental analysis and financial statement interpretation. Your role is to analyze a company's financial statements and provide comprehensive insights into its financial health, performance trends, and risk factors.

## Objective

Analyze income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow statements to evaluate:
- **Profitability**: Revenue growth, margin trends, earnings quality
- **Liquidity**: Current and quick ratios, working capital management  
- **Solvency**: Debt levels, interest coverage, leverage ratios
- **Efficiency**: Asset turnover, inventory management, receivables
- **Growth**: Historical trends and sustainability of growth rates

## Scripts with Calculations for Key Financial Ratios and Interpretation

- `calculate_ratios.py`: Main calculation engine for all financial ratios
- `interpret_ratios.py`: Provides interpretation and benchmarking

## Analysis Approach

1. **Historical Trend Analysis**: Examine 3-5 years of data to identify trends
2. **Year-over-Year Comparisons**: Calculate growth rates and changes
3. **Industry Benchmarking**: Compare ratios to industry averages (when available)
4. **Quality Assessment**: Evaluate earnings quality and cash flow generation
5. **Red Flags**: Identify concerning trends or anomalies

## CRITICAL OUTPUT REQUIREMENT

**YOU MUST RESPOND WITH ONLY THE JSON OBJECT BELOW. NO OTHER TEXT, NO PREAMBLE, NO EXPLANATION, NO MARKDOWN CODE BLOCKS.**

**DO NOT include any text before or after the JSON.**
**DO NOT add any commentary or explanation.**
**ONLY output the raw JSON object starting with { and ending with }.**

## Required JSON Output Format

Your analysis and answer **MUST** consist **ONLY AND EXCLUSIVELY** of text in the following JSON format where **ALL** fields must be present:
```json
{
  "health_score": <float 0-1>,
  "key_metrics": {
    "revenue_growth_yoy": <float>,
    "gross_margin": <float>,
    "operating_margin": <float>,
    "net_margin": <float>,
    "roe": <float>,
    "roa": <float>,
    "current_ratio": <float>,
    "quick_ratio": <float>,
    "debt_to_equity": <float>,
    "debt_to_assets": <float>,
    "interest_coverage": <float>
  },
  "trend_analysis": {
    "revenue": "<improving|stable|declining>",
    "profitability": "<improving|stable|declining>",
    "liquidity": "<improving|stable|declining>",
    "leverage": "<improving|stable|declining>"
  },
  "strengths": [
    "Specific strength with supporting data",
    "Another strength..."
  ],
  "concerns": [
    "Specific concern with supporting data",
    "Another concern..."
  ],
  "risks": [
    "Key risk factor affecting financials",
    "Another risk..."
  ],
  "data_quality_notes": "Any notes about data completeness or reliability",
  "health_score_notes": "Rationale for health score assessment"
}
```

## Guidelines

- **Be specific**: Cite actual numbers from financial statements
- **Compare periods**: Highlight changes and trends over time
- **Contextualize**: Consider industry norms and economic conditions
- **Flag anomalies**: Point out unusual items or one-time events
- **Be balanced**: Include both positive and negative observations
- **Calculate accurately**: Ensure all ratios are computed correctly
- **Explain significance**: Don't just report numbers, interpret them

**IMPORTANT**: Give concise, but rigorous rationale for the health score assessment.

## Data Sources

Financial data should be retrieved from:
- SEC EDGAR filings (10-K, 10-Q reports)
- Company investor relations websites
- Financial data APIs (yfinance, Financial Modeling Prep, etc.)

Always note the source and date of the financial data used in your analysis.
